Update Bug triage guidelines (#10683)
godotengine/godot-docs: contributing/workflow/bug_triage_guidelines.rst

Issues management
-----------------

For issue management, we use the following GitHub processes:

- Each issue and pull request (PR) is categorized with a set of *labels*,
  sometimes called "tags".
- Each issue and PR is assigned to a *milestone*.

> - Issues can have an *assignee*, who is a contributor among

Reviewer: Fragment

- Issues can be put in one or more *projects*.
- PRs can be *linked* to one or more issues which they "fix" or "close".

We don't yet extensively use or rely on some other GitHub processes:

- Issue close reasons (completed, not planned, duplicate). While we use these,
  it is not consistent, and older issues are all closed as "completed", so the
  issue close reason should not be relied on.
- Issue *types* (Bug, Feature, Task).
- Issue *relationships*.

We only use the assignees feature for Godot maintainers who are members of the
Godot engine GitHub organization, and even then not in all cases. Any contributor
is welcome to take on any issue, after discussing it with other contributors.
If you would like to pick up an issue (and no one else is working on it), all

> you have to do is leave a comment in the issue.

Author: We could write some additional content about the general workflow here.

> you have to do is leave a comment in the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you have to do is leave a comment on the issue.
```
Also we might want to clarify here that there are issues that aren't necessarily open for general contributions, but should always be handled by maintainers, so might want to not state explicitly that anyone is welcome to take on any issue at least

Labels
~~~~~~

The following `labels <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/labels>`__ are
currently defined in the Godot repository:

Categories:

> ^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: I went through the whole list, and I consider the current descriptions to be acceptable and correct to my knowledge.

But I'm sure we could improve these further if we wanted to?

Issues management
-----------------

For issue management, we use the following GitHub processes:

- Each issue and pull request (PR) is categorized with a set of *labels*,
  sometimes called "tags".

> - Each issue and PR is assigned to a *milestone*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Each PR is assigned to a *milestone*. Some issues can also be assigned to a *milestone* (see below).
```

- Issues can have an *assignee*, who is a contributor among Godot maintainers.
- Issues can be put in one or more *projects*.
- PRs can be *linked* to one or more issues which they "fix" or "close".

We don't yet extensively use or rely on some other GitHub processes:

- Issue close reasons (completed, not planned, duplicate). While we use these,
  it is not consistent, and older issues are all closed as "completed", so the
  issue close reason should not be relied on.
- Issue *types* (Bug, Feature, Task).
- Issue *relationships*.

We only use the assignees feature for Godot maintainers who are members of the

> Godot engine GitHub organization, and even then not in all cases. For other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Godot Engine GitHub organization, and even then not in all cases. For other
```

issues, we track who is working on an issue by comments on the issue and linked
pull requests. Most issues are available for any contributor to take on, after
discussing it with other contributors. If you would like to work on an issue,

> and first check that no one else is working on it, by looking for a linked pull

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first check that no one else is working on it, by looking for a linked pull
```

request, a comment "claiming" the issue, or an assignee. If no one else is
working on the issue, leave a comment on the issue to "claim" it and start
working on it.

Labels
~~~~~~

The following `labels <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/labels>`__ are
currently defined in the Godot repository:

Categories:
^^^^^^^^^^^

> -  *Archived*: used to filter closed issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  *Archived*: used to filter issues closed with a resolution other than "fixed".
```

   - For issues, added to all issues that are not resolved by engine or
     documentation changes. This includes duplicate issues, user error, or

>      reports in the wrong repository. Usually, all other labels are removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     reports in the wrong repository.
```
This is incorrect

     Since we don't rely on GitHub's issue close reasons (``completed``, ``not

>      planned``, and ``duplicate``), it is possible for a PR to be closed as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     planned``, and ``duplicate``), it is possible for an issue to be closed as
```
Assuming

   should be filed on the `godot-docs <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs>`_ repository.
-  *Enhancement*: describes a proposed enhancement to an existing
   functionality.

> -  *Feature proposal*: Used for PRs adding new features which do not have a

Reviewer 2: For consistency with other items:
```suggestion
-  *Feature proposal*: used for PRs adding new features which do not have a
```

>    corresponding proposal use this label. The label is removed when a feature

Reviewer 2: There seems to have been a shift in understanding of this label, this wasn't what it meant originally.

The description of `enhancement` mentions that it's for changes to existing functionality, so `feature proposal` should cover the addition of new features - whether or not they have a linked proposal.

It should probably be renamed to `new feature`, the name dates back to when we had feature proposals as issues in the main tracker.

Author: Yeah, I updated it recently to match the observed usage. Personally I do think it would be good to distinguish between new features and enhancements, as originally intended and as you're proposing here.

But this sounds like a case where we should change how the label is applied in practice before changing the docs for it?

Reviewer 3: I'm in agreement wit tetrapod, we should update the labels and their description before changing the docs

   To do so, you need to open a new pull request based on the original pull request.
-  *Spam*: intentional spam issues, and extremely low-effort PRs. Used
   sparingly, since we give contributors and users the benefit of the doubt. In
   most cases, *Needs work* or *Archived* is more appropriate.
-  *Tracker*: issue used to track other issues (like all issues related to
   the plugin system).
-  *Usability*: issues that directly impact user usability. Should not be coupled with *Performance*.

The categories are used for general triage of the issues. They can be combined
in some way when relevant, e.g. an issue can be labelled *Bug* and *Usability*
at the same time if it's a bug that affects usability. Or *Enhancement* and
*Discussion* if it's an improvement that requires discussion of the best
approach. At least one of the categories *Bug*, *Enhancement* or *Discussion* is
used to describe an issue or pull request.

Topics:
^^^^^^^

-  *2D*: relates to 2D-specific issues. Should be coupled with one of the labels
   below, and should not be coupled with *3D*.
-  *3D*: relates to 3D-specific issues. Should be coupled with one of the labels

>    below, and should not be coupled with *2D*.

Author: From what I've seen it's used frequently along with `topic:rendering`, including about features that aren't actually nodes

>    below, and should not be coupled with *2D*.

Reviewer: Yes but what I'm describing is the intended use

milestone to mark issues that are specific to Godot 3.x.

All pull requests are assigned to a milestone. By default, enhancement and
feature PRs are assigned to the ``4.x`` milestone, and bugs are assigned to the
current minor version milestone, such as ``4.5``. Towards the end of a minor
version's development, PRs currently in the minor version milestone are
reassigned to either the major version milestone (``4.x``), or the next minor
version milestone (such as ``4.6``).

When a pull request is approved and merged, it is moved from ``4.x`` to the
milestone for the current minor engine version, such as ``4.5``.

The milestone assigned to a PR is a goal, not a guarantee. New features and
enhancements are merged when they are ready. While reviewers and maintainers do
their best to review PRs in time for the current version, at some point we reach
the beta, feature freeze, and then release; and existing PRs are re-triaged to
the next minor version, or to ``4.x``. As a rule, we assign new features to
``4.x`` version initially to avoid continually re-triaging a PR from version to
version. However, a PR being in ``4.x`` does not mean it won't be merged; it's

> just the default for new features.

Author: This paragraph needs the most attention to set expectations.

some issues and all PRs.

We have milestones for specific minor engine versions, like ``4.5`` and ``4.6``,
as well as general milestones for major engine versions, like ``3.x`` and
``4.x``. In the ``godot-proposals`` repo, we also have a ``5.0`` milestone for
compatibility-breaking changes that will be considered for Godot 5.0, in many
years.

Issues are assigned to a milestone, such as ``4.5``, if they are related to
features introduced in that engine version, or are bugs (regressions) in that
version. Additionally, all issues completed during that engine version are added
to the milestone. We don't always use the ``4.x`` milestone for issues, since by
default all issues are related to Godot 4.x. However, we do use the ``3.x``
milestone to mark issues that are specific to Godot 3.x.

All pull requests are assigned to a milestone. By default, enhancement and
feature PRs are assigned to the ``4.x`` milestone, and bugs are assigned to the
current minor version milestone, such as ``4.5``. Towards the end of a minor
version's development, PRs currently in the minor version milestone are
reassigned to either the major version milestone (``4.x``), or the next minor

> version milestone (such as ``4.6``).

Reviewer: This section should make it clear that PRs are reassigned only if they are not considered for the version, as this makes it sound like all PRs are moved before the version is released

When a pull request is approved and merged, it is moved from ``4.x`` to the

> milestone for the current minor engine version, such as ``4.5``.

Reviewer: This happens before it is merged, when the review process is complete and the production team decides it is ready to go

Author: This is tricky to word well, since:
- We don't always follow the prescriptive guide for what to put in 4.4 vs 4.x, or when to move PRs
- The production team "approval" is somewhat opaque
- Being in 4.4 and having multiple relevant approvals *still* doesnt always guarantee "merge soon"

So I'm not sure whether to write the prescriptive ideal case or to hedge a bit to account for some inconsistency in usage of milestones.

Reviewer: That aside we normally don't merge PRs that's on a `.x` milestone, either this part should be removed entirely or it should say that a PR is moved to a specific milestone when it's considered ready to merge, but regardless the specific order of events here doesn't reflect our process

repository.

Milestones
~~~~~~~~~~

`Milestones <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/milestones>`_ are used for
some issues and all PRs.

We have milestones for specific minor engine versions, like ``4.5`` and ``4.6``,
as well as general milestones for major engine versions, like ``3.x`` and
``4.x``. In the ``godot-proposals`` repo, we also have a ``5.0`` milestone for
compatibility-breaking changes that will be considered for Godot 5.0, in many
years.

Issues are assigned to a milestone, such as ``4.5``, if they are related to
features introduced in that engine version, or are bugs (regressions) in that
version. Additionally, all issues completed during that engine version are added
to the milestone. We don't always use the ``4.x`` milestone for issues, since by
default all issues are related to Godot 4.x. However, we do use the ``3.x``
milestone to mark issues that are specific to Godot 3.x.

All pull requests are assigned to a milestone. By default, enhancement and
feature PRs are assigned to the ``4.x`` milestone, and bugs are assigned to the
current minor version milestone, such as ``4.5``. Towards the end of the minor

> version's development, PRs currently in the ``4.5`` milestone are reassessed. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version's development, PRs currently in that milestone are reassessed. If
```
To avoid confusion

Author: Makes sense. I had it like this before anyway, but thought it might be clearer with a specific 4.5 example. I changed it back

> a PR is no longer being considered for ``4.5``, it is reassigned to either the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a PR is no longer being considered for that version, it is reassigned to either the
```

major version milestone (``4.x``), or the next minor version milestone (such as
``4.6``).

Pull requests in the ``4.x`` milestone are reassigned to the current minor
engine version, such as ``4.5``, when the review process is complete, and the
production team decides that the PR is ready to be merged soon. Note that

> usually this requires more than one approving review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this usually requires more than one approving review.
```

The milestone assigned to a PR is a goal, not a guarantee. New features and
enhancements are merged when they are ready. While reviewers and maintainers do
their best to review PRs in time for the current version, at some point we reach
the beta, feature freeze, and then release; and existing PRs are re-triaged to
the next minor version, or to ``4.x``. As a rule, we assign new features to the

> ``4.x`` milestone initially to avoid continually re-triaging a PR from version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``4.x`` milestone initially to avoid continually reassigning a PR from version
```

-  *Redirect*: Issues and PRs involving moving content and adding a redirect rule on the backend.
-  *Website*: Issues related to adding website features and fixing bugs, whether on the front or back-end,

Topic:
^^^^^^

The available topics describe the same content as the topics in the main
repository.

Milestones
~~~~~~~~~~

`Milestones <https://github.com/godotengine/godot/milestones>`_ are used for
some issues and all PRs.

We have milestones for specific minor engine versions, like ``4.5`` and ``4.6``,
as well as general milestones for major engine versions, like ``3.x`` and
``4.x``. In the ``godot-proposals`` repo, we also have a ``5.0`` milestone for
compatibility-breaking changes that will be considered for Godot 5.0, in many
years.

> Issues are assigned to a milestone, such as ``4.5``, if they are related to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Issues are assigned to current development milestone, such as ``4.5``, if they are related to
```

features introduced in that engine version, or are bugs (regressions) in that

> version. Additionally, all issues completed during that engine version are added

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
version. Additionally, all issues completed during the development of that engine version are added
```

> to the milestone. We don't always use the ``4.x`` milestone for issues, since by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the milestone, so that users can see at a glance in which minor version an issue was first fixed.
We don't always use the ``4.x`` milestone for issues, since by
```

default all issues are related to Godot 4.x. However, we do use the ``3.x``
milestone to mark issues that are specific to Godot 3.x.

All pull requests are assigned to a milestone. By default, enhancement and
feature PRs are assigned to the ``4.x`` milestone, and bugs are assigned to the

> current minor version milestone, such as ``4.5``. Towards the end of the minor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
current development milestone, such as ``4.5``. Towards the end of the minor
```
